---
title: delphix/projects/DLPX-65887
---

# DLPX-65887 solidify root filesystem names for L release

* https://jira.delphix.com/browse/DLPX-65887

## Next

* Waiting on reviews: http://reviews.delphix.com/r/52434/
* Waiting on reviews: https://github.com/delphix/appliance-build/pull/361

## Goal

We want a way to easily gather appliance version information about the
root filesystems contained on an appliance; and ideally, without
having to rely on MDS or any other non-platform component.

The plan is to embed the appliance version into each root filesystem
container using dataset properties. We'll maintain a property that
contains the version that was initially installed on a given root
filesystem container (this will not change), and another property that
contains the currently installed on a given root filesystem container
(this will change via "in-place" upgrades).

We'll need to be sure to set and maintain these properties for all
workflows, including:

* Initial VM image generation
* Migration from illumos to Linux
* Upgrade from Linux to Linux
* Rollback from Linux to illumos
* Rollback from Linux to Linux

## Tasks

* [x] Create bootstrap VM for build testing.
* [x] Determine where to set "initial" property.
  * [x] Set for new VM artifacts
  * [x] Set for upgrade
  * [x] Set for migration
* [x] Determine where to set "current" property.
  * [x] Set for new VM artifacts (w/ initial)
  * [x] Set for upgrade (w/ initial)
  * [x] Set for migration (w/ initial)
  * [x] Set for upgrade (w/o initial)
* [x] Determine name for the new properties; e.g. "initial" and
  "current"?
* [x] Determine naming scheme to use for properties; e.g. "com.delphix"
  prefix?

## Questions?

* Q: When we create a not-in-place container, it doesn't initially have
  the delphix-entire package installed. That'll get installed later when
  we run the "execute" script. Thus, should we defer setting the delphix
  version properties until we run "execute"? i.e. we'll set these
  properties in "execute"?

* A: Yes, we should defer.

* Q: Should all occurances where we "get the appliance version" to use
  this new property? i.e. the app-gate script, and in "common.sh" of
  appliance-build. Rather than querying the delphix-entire package
  version with "dpkg", we'd query this dataset property.

* A: Yes, we should use the new property.

### Testing

* Bootstrap VM: ps-65887-bs.dlpxdc.co
* Changes: https://github.com/prakashsurya/appliance-build/tree/DLPX-65887

### Meeting 7.4.2019

* Met with folks and we've decided to stick with the current "mktemp"
  based naming scheme, but add ZFS properties to the dataset to encode
  information about the product version.

* The properties that we need to add are:
  * A property to describe the "first" product version that was
    installed on the rootfs dataset(s).
  * A property to describe the "current" product version that is
    installed on the rootfs dataset(s).
